# Response 2

**Prompt:** What are the differences and similarities between retreats discussed in readings and the forced retreat we are all subject due as a result of COVID-19

**Differences:** motivation behind the retreat, implications behind partaking in either form of retreat, amount of freedom we have, one may improve our mental health while this forced isolation is mentally catastrophic for many, retreats are still containers for behavior with secondary motivations for participation related to productivity, retreats are an INDUSTRY, retreats are a controlled and carefully targeted area to pay money to "relax" (heavily coerced into being relaxed)
**Similarities:** act of personal removal from society, opportunities for self reflection, we are still expected to "make something" of our time at home.

I find retreats incredibly interesting as they seem almost predatory, targeting an entire population of overworked, often over-paid workers selling them this idea of a socially mandatory obligation to better oneself. While the motivations behind these retreats are seemingly for the betterment of their minds, it is not hard to also recognize that retreats are a for profit industry. The act of going on a retreat is a status symbol in itself and is beneficial to the progress of ones career through networking opportunities and a shallow sense of "healing" that improves their mental productivity for the fiscal year until they are due for their next dose of socially mandated relaxation. Such retreats have both similarities and differences to the forced isolation we all are experiencing as a result of COVID-19. The similarities lie in the consequences or specifics of participating in such a retreat; personal removal from society, opportunities for self reflection and "nothing" (as talked about by Odell). The differences number much more however. At the core what characterizes the differences between our situation and retreats is the very problem i have with them, there is a motive. The motive from the consumer being that under the layers of secondary rationalizations of "betterment" and "wellness" the core is to increase ones mental productivity for gain and the motives for the staff that run and promote such wellness retreats is to make you first value what they value and then pay them to participate. I don't see a problem with the desire for gain however it irritates me it is clouded behind the glamorized image of what it really means to be "relaxed", and that such relaxation is to be sought by following what people like Gwyneth Paltrow get paid millions to promote.