# Response 1

One of the many affordances i am very grateful to have at my disposal is access to a nearby trail system running through Toronto called the Don Valley. It was once much cleaner and more minimally impacted by the urban life competing around it and sadly environmental abuse to the land only increases with each year, however its accessibility means i am able to use the space for essentially a regular practice of "nothing" as talked about by Odell. 

During times of pandemic and limited freedom of movement I have been fortunate enough to maintain my access to nature through utilizing the Don Valley trail system to partake in a sort of "day camping" where I explore deliberately away from the guided paths and movement patterns the majority of people use in an effort to maintain isolation while not being confined to the walls of my home. I have noticed i am able to thrive during these times as i see my peers and family struggling with the consequences of prolonged boredom and isolation as I seem to have found a way to maintain enrichment and balance in my life through the practice of "nothingness". I am not there to improve concentration, productive output through a healthier mind, or any other secondary reasoning for the practice of unstimulating leisure. I am simply there to experience peacefulness for peacefulness sake amidst times of panic and break away from the constant over-stimulation that plagues society, especially today as people hang onto every minor update and change in situation to their own mental detriment.

Personally Odell's concept of "nothing" as well as "deep listening" deeply interests me as it has been something i have unknowingly valued and practiced for years. It is in my opinion that the majority of people cannot be physically limited from access to a space that provides the same benefits i have experienced (one could engage in deep listening out their window, backyard, balcony) however things such as social pressure and the pervasiveness of toxic productivity and "hustle culture" will limit someones willingness to seek out such a practice due to subscribing to the belief that capital gain and career progress is the metric to measure personal progress and well-being.