# GEOG315 - Week 10: Geography's Implications III
- What do these readings have in common:
    - They all examine how assumptions about what’s “normal” structure socio-cultural life and geography (in two senses: the geographies around us and writing about geography)

- What do these readings NOT have in common; what distinguishes them:
    - Philo examines assumptions about “reason,” related assumptions about “unreason,” and their role in shaping the city of Edinburgh during the Enlightenment era
    - Phillips examines assumptions about sexuality, especially differences between “normal” and “deviant” sexuality, and how these assumptions were mapped in the 19th century work of geographer and travel writer Richard Burton
    - Binnie examines the connections between heterosexism and epistemology in 1980's/90's geography

# Lecture Notes: Geography's Implications III; Bodies and "Norms"
- **Key questions of this lecture:**
    - What are “norms”? And how do they shape socio-cultural life?
    - How do “norms” shape geographical writing/research? What are the consequences? What are the alternatives?

## Norms
- What is a norm? (Ex: social norm)
    - Informal rules that govern behavior in groups and societies
    - Norms are sometimes explicit, sometimes implicit

- How do norms shape socio-cultural life?
    - Norms often define what it means to be a proper human being; What happens if you defy the norms? Are you less human?
    - Gender norms
    - Sexual norms
    - Norms of ability (mental and physical)
    - Prisons

- What are the consequences of norms; What happens when you defy norms?

## Philo: Reason, Unreason
- Philo focused on the Enlightenment (end of the 18th, beginning of the 19th century)
- Examines how “Reason” gets codified in relation to “Unreason” (and then, various categories of unreason)
- How “Reason” shapes socio-cultural life and the city

## Phillips: Richard Burton
- Phillips focused on Richard Burton (1821-1890)
- Mapped the **“Sotadic Zone"**
    - What are the boundaries?
    - What are the characteristics? What’s “the Vice”?
    - What causes these characteristics?
    - What consequences? For the “Orient”? For the West/“Occident”?

## Binnie: Coming Out
- Binnie focused on present-day geography (in the 1990's)
- Examined three challenges:
    1. Invisibility of gays and lesbians; heterosexuality is normalized and assumed
    2. Epistemology; division between mind and body, reason and emotion
    3. Homo-normativity?

- “To assert a queer epistemology implicitly means asserting some notion of what is queer. This is a hazardous exercise which could lead me to be prescription about what it means to be queer”

- He’s calling for something more complicated than simply adding new categories, making LGBTQ2S people “visible.” Can this be done?

# Film Notes: The Prison in Twelve Landscapes
- "An examination of prison and its place, social, economic, and psychological, in American society"
    - Exploring the connection between prisons and the communities and industries that surround them, as prisoners are funneled into incarceration from these communities and then exploited as a resource of labor or capital accumulation to benefit industries and the privatized prison system itself.
        - It highlights the perverted nature a justice system that is influenced by more than supposedly moral guidelines and norms of belonging in society that must not be broken.
        - The American justice system can be seen as an engine of mass incarceration as the prison system is influenced by economic incentives to fill prisoner quotas. It is in this way that the justice system is not very far removed from a privatized capitalist corporation who's provocation is to exploit the labor of often racialized individuals and communities.
    - Within the American capitalist context, where everything from the land and its resources to the justice system is privatized, prisons are seen as just another industry that can transform resources (prisoners) into jobs (prison labor, prison staff/guards) for capital accumulation.

- Film opens exploring the community within Washington Square Park
    - "If you see any black man out in the street here hustling, trying to sell something, he been to jail"

- Focus then moves to Eastern Kentucky
    - Town that was supported largely by the business and industry of the Elk Horn Coal Corporation; "when coal left no one had a back up plan and it just kinda fell apart from there"
        - With no industry or business, the economy of the town is now sustained by the revenues and jobs generated by the local prison
        - Example of a local economy surviving solely due to the economic benefits and jobs provided by the prison system; the prison is not needed for reasons of housing prisoners, but for the economic benefit it provides to its community
    - Landscapes of Eastern Kentucky were transformed by the activities of coal companies
    - "With the coal industry gone, I don't see Eastern Kentucky getting better unless something else comes in here"; this "something else" refers to a prison that would employ large percentages of the local population
        - "It's recession proof"

- The film then explores a loan corporation (Quicken Loans) that operates within the central business district of Detroit
    - The tour guide guiding the filmmakers highlights how the loan corporation works cooperatively with local police, border patrol, and eyes on the street to ensure the safety and security of their business
        - The tour guide emphasizes the power the loan corporation has on the spatial development of Detroit. This is seen when the guide is walking through the streets pointing out each building or property that is owned and being actively redeveloped, i.e. deliberated gentrified, to reflect the way they want Detroit to be perceived to attract the most capital
        - Police are protective in areas where the capital is located, and combative and predatory where it isn't; one's passage through the justice system starts with policing, however even the police are motivated by capital interests
            - The way the police are looking after the interest of predominantly white corporations is exemplified almost poetically when the tour guide jaywalks in front of a police officer and jokes "it turned red, i hope i don't get a ticket", and the officer replies "i hope not!", and then proceeds to do it again in front of a car at a stoplight
        - "We keep an eye (on the street), and it is awesome"
    - Outlines how the CBD of Detroit is rapidly gentrifying and being "redeveloped" to attract business and capital into the city in an effort to "change the perception" of Detroit as an urban space by removing the remnants of those that defy social norms 

- The enthusiastic and joyous exploration of a gentrifying Detroit is then juxtaposed with a focus on a burning Marin County, where female inmates are exploited for their labor and ability to fight fires. This is dangerous work that while providing the inmates with an outlet and ability to be in nature, it provides them no benefit to their ability to sustain themselves once they leave prison.
    - "Who knows whats gonna happen when we get out, we've already got one strike against us, because of the felony on the application ... nine times out of ten, you're not going to be a firefighter"
        - This shows how these prisoners are utilized for their skilled and dangerous labor while in the prison system, however this experience does not provide them any advantage to find firefighting work when their sentence is over. The fact they went to prison removes their ability to better their future through a skilled career, further keeping them within the cycle of incarceration that benefits off of their exploited labor, but not the other way around.

- Focus then shifts to the Bronx where a man has an entire business devoted to providing the families of inmates with supplies and foodstuffs to be sent to inmates that meet the arbitrary guidelines of the prison administration